spinal manipulation
perform a physical examination, with special emphasis on the spine, and possibly other examinations or tests such as x-rays. 
perform a physical examination, with special emphasis on the spine, and possibly other examinations or tests such as x-rays. 
Most chiropractors use other treatments in addition to adjustment, such as:

mobilization (a technique in which a joint is passively moved within its normal range of motion)
massage therapy
heat and ice
ultrasound
electrical stimulation
rehabilitative exercise
magnetic therapy
counseling about diet, weight loss, and other lifestyle factors
dietary supplements
homeopathy
acupuncture

herapeutic exercise and stretching, spinal traction, manual soft tissue therapy, transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS), ultrasound, and others.

Therapeutic Exercise
Chiropractors commonly prescribe specific strengthening exercises for their patients with back, neck, and extremity problems. These exercises can help decrease pain, prevent muscle deterioration, promote joint health, increase strength, stability and range of motion, and protect against new or recurring injuries.
comfortable doing them on your own.

Therapeutic Stretches
Following an injury, therapeutic stretching is an important way to prevent scar tissue from forming. Even after the injury has healed, maintaining a regular stretching program helps keep tissues flexible, increases mobility, and protects you from new injuries. As with exercise, your chiropractor will instruct you on proper stretching techniques and will supervise you until you are comfortable enough to do them on your own.




Main Method
ethod of treatment is the spinal manipulation, many chiropractors also use other therapies to treat their patients. Some of the most common treatments chiropractic doctors recommend includes therapeutic exercise and stretching, spinal traction, manual soft tissue therapy, transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS), ultrasound, and others.

Therapeutic Exercise
Chiropractors commonly prescribe specific strengthening exercises for their patients with back, neck, and extremity problems. These exercises can help decrease pain, prevent muscle deterioration, promote joint health, increase strength, stability and range of motion, and protect against new or recurring injuries.



Therapeutic Stretches
Following an injury, therapeutic stretching is an important way to prevent scar tissue from forming. Even after the injury has healed, maintaining a regular stretching program helps keep tissues flexible, increases mobility, and protects you from new injuries. As with exercise, your chiropractor will instruct you on proper stretching techniques and will supervise you until you are comfortable enough to do them on your own.


Spinal Traction
Many chiropractors use spinal traction, in which traction devices are applied to distract areas of the spine. This treatment helps to gently separate the vertebrae resulting in disc decompression, reduced nerve root pressure, and less pain.

Soft Tissue Manual Therapy
Chiropractors use a variety of hands-on soft tissue therapies to improve the function of the soft tissues (muscles, ligaments, tendons, and joint capsules). These include pin and stretch, also known under a proprietary name Active Release Technique (ART), and instrument-assisted soft tissue mobilization (Graston Technique).


Physical Therapy Modalities

Muscle Stimulation
Uses light electrical pulses transmitted to specific areas of the body through electrodes placed on the skin to reduce inflammation, muscle spasm, muscles to contraction in order to reduce muscle atrophy. Some forms of electrical stimulation have combination effects.

Transcutaneous Electric Nerve Stimulation (TENS)
A TENS unit is a small, battery-powered, portable muscle stimulation machine that can be used at home to help control pain. Variable intensities of electric current are used to control pain. This treatment is recommended to help patients get through periods of severe (acute) pain. TENS units are typically not recommended for chronic pain. In fact, a 2009 report from the American Academy of Neurology found that TENS units are not effective at treating chronic low back pain.

Ultrasound 
Therapeutic ultrasound is a form of deep heat therapy created by sound waves. When applied to soft tissues and joints, the sound waves are a form of micro-massage that help reduce swelling, increase blood flow, and decrease pain, stiffness, and muscle spasms.

Ice and Heat Therapy
Ice and heat have long been used to treat many painful conditions. Ice therapy is often used to reduce swelling and help control pain immediately after an injury. Heat therapy is used to relax the muscles, increase circulation, and can provide relief to patients with chronic pain. Depending on the patient's condition, a combination of ice and heat can be used.

